---
title:  AUTO DRAFT - Deep Learning in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy 
author: Daniel Park
date: 2023-05-04
category: life
layout: post
---

> 이 글은 자동 생성된 초고로, 선행연구를 훑어보고, 색인하기 위한 용도입니다. This draft is automatically generated for the purpose of skimming through prior research and indexing.
> 배치성 프로그램으로 진행하고 있는 연구에 참고될만한 논문들을 자동 생성합니다. 논문들은 인용 관계로 서로 연결되어 있으며, 인용 횟수 순으로 정렬되어 있습니다. The batch program generates research papers that can be referenced in my ongoing studies. These papers are connected to each other through citation relationships and are sorted by the number of citations.


- Related Project: Private 
- Project Status: 1 Alpha
- Date: 2023-05

## Main Paper
### Review and Prospect: Deep Learning in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4db3ba8112f3ec14bd1df63bb706e14184fbc562> 
- **abstract:** Since the concept of Deep Learning (DL) was formally proposed in 2006, it had a major impact on academic research and industry. Nowadays, DL provides an unprecedented way to analyze and process data with demonstrated great results in computer vision, medical imaging, natural language processing, etc. In this Minireview, we summarize applications of DL in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and outline a perspective for DL as entirely new approaches that are likely to transform NMR spectroscopy into a much more efficient and powerful technique in chemistry and life science. 
- **journal:** Chemistry 
- **volume:** null 
- **pages:** null 
- **doi:** 10.1002/chem.202000246 
- **pmid:** 32251549 
- **arxivid:** 2001.04813 


## Connected Papers
### Physics-Driven Synthetic Data Learning for Biomedical Magnetic Resonance: The imaging physics-based data synthesis paradigm for artificial intelligence 
- **year:** 2022 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c917a6588b7c94d4a0264eeb6816de970ca5388> 
- **abstract:** Deep learning (DL) has driven innovation in the field of computational imaging. One of its bottlenecks is unavailable or insufficient training data. This article reviews an emerging paradigm, imaging physics-based data synthesis (IPADS), that can provide huge training data in biomedical magnetic resonance (MR) without or with few real data. Following the physical law of MR, IPADS generates signals from differential equations or analytical solution models, making learning more scalable and explainable and better protecting privacy. Key components of IPADS learning, including signal generation models, basic DL network structures, enhanced data generation, and learning methods, are discussed. Great IPADS potential has been demonstrated by representative applications in fast imaging, ultrafast signal reconstruction, and accurate parameter quantification. Finally, open questions and future work are discussed. 
- **journal:** IEEE Signal Processing Magazine 
- **volume:** 40 
- **pages:** 129-140 
- **doi:** 10.1109/MSP.2022.3183809 
- **arxivid:** 2203.11178 

### Alternating Deep Low Rank Approach for Exponential Function Reconstruction and Its Biomedical Magnetic Resonance Applications 
- **year:** 2022 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/aef5a551eabc9b7e2d99842e881fd6da9d4f70cb> 
- **abstract:** —Exponential function is a fundamental signal form in general signal processing and biomedical applications, such as magnetic resonance spectroscopy and imaging. How to reduce the sampling time of these signals is an important problem. Sub-Nyquist sampling can accelerate signal acquisition but bring in artifacts. Recently, the low rankness of these exponentials has been applied to implicitly constrain the deep learning network through the unrolling of low rank Hankel factorization algorithm. However, only depending on the implicit low rank constraint cannot provide the robust reconstruction, such as sampling rate mismatches. In this work, by introducing the explicit low rank prior to constrain the deep learning, we propose an Alternating Deep Low Rank approach (ADLR) that utilizes deep learning and optimization solvers alternately. The former solver accelerates the reconstruction while the latter one corrects the reconstruction error from the mismatch. The experiments on both general exponential functions and realistic biomedical magnetic resonance data show that, compared with the state-of-the-art methods, ADLR can achieve much lower reconstruction error and effectively alleviates the decrease of reconstruction quality with sampling rate mismatches. 
- **arxivid:** 2211.13479 

### A fast Hankel matrix nonconvex factorization reconstruction method with inertia momentum for non-uniformly sampled NMR spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2021 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/78f5af9cc8a435cb899722ca78f0efa7a1075081> 
- **abstract:** null 
- **journal:** Digit. Signal Process. 
- **volume:** 117 
- **pages:** 103171 
- **doi:** 10.1016/J.DSP.2021.103171 

### Image reconstruction with low-rankness and self-consistency of k-space data in parallel MRI 
- **year:** 2019 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ed8d52285cdf6eb186119a3547140d889ca7255f> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: An image reconstruction approach named STDLR-SPiriT is proposed to explore the simultaneous two-directional low-rankness (STDLR) in the k-space data and to mine the data correlation from multiple receiver coils with the iterative self-consistent parallel imaging reconstruction (SPIRiT). 
- **journal:** Medical image analysis 
- **volume:** 63 
- **pages:** 101687 
- **doi:** 10.1016/j.media.2020.101687 
- **pmid:** 32294605 
- **arxivid:** 1909.02846 

### Hypercomplex Low Rank Reconstruction for NMR Spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2022 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9cec5849f1b7ae3832f4a63dbf44883fe9d5386a> 
- **abstract:** null 
- **journal:** Signal Process. 
- **volume:** 203 
- **pages:** 108809 
- **doi:** 10.1016/j.sigpro.2022.108809 

### A Fast Low Rank Hankel Matrix Factorization Reconstruction Method for Non-Uniformly Sampled Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2017 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4f90e8c7d030535ffda1873b7da894663ebfda0d> 
- **abstract:** Multidimensional magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) serves as a valuable tool to analyze metabolites in medical imaging, complex chemical compounds in the chemistry, and protein structures in biology. The data acquisition time, however, is relatively long because it increases exponentially with dimensions. Non-uniform sampling is an effective way to accelerate the data acquisition and a proper reconstruction method is necessary to obtain a full spectra of high quality. A state-of-the-art low-rank Hankel matrix method has shown a great ability to reconstruct the low intensity broad peaks and increase the effective sensitivity of the reconstructed spectra. However, this technology faces the challenge of slow computation time because minimizing the rankness encounters the time-consuming singular value decomposition in the iterative algorithm. This heavily prohibits the method from processing higher dimensional MRS. In this paper, a low-rank matrix factorization method that avoids singular value decomposition is introduced to enable fast MRS reconstruction without sacrificing the spectra quality. Combined with a designed parallel computing architecture, the proposed approach can speed up the computation of low-rank approach with a factor up to 150 and enables reconstructing the challenging 3-D MRS within 15 minutes. 
- **journal:** IEEE Access 
- **volume:** 5 
- **pages:** 16033-16039 
- **doi:** 10.1109/ACCESS.2017.2731860 

### Hankel Matrix Nuclear Norm Regularized Tensor Completion for $N$-dimensional Exponential Signals 
- **year:** 2016 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/80fecba43663776d8ea87e230f92f8bbd4c66060> 
- **abstract:** Signals are generally modeled as a superposition of exponential functions in spectroscopy of chemistry, biology, and medical imaging. For fast data acquisition or other inevitable reasons, however, only a small amount of samples may be acquired, and thus, how to recover the full signal becomes an active research topic, but existing approaches cannot efficiently recover <inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$N$</tex-math></inline-formula>-dimensional exponential signals with <inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$N\geq 3$</tex-math></inline-formula>. In this paper, we study the problem of recovering <inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$N$</tex-math></inline-formula>-dimensional (particularly <inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$N\geq 3$</tex-math></inline-formula>) exponential signals from partial observations, and formulate this problem as a low-rank tensor completion problem with exponential factor vectors. The full signal is reconstructed by simultaneously exploiting the CANDECOMP/PARAFAC tensor structure and the exponential structure of the associated factor vectors. The latter is promoted by minimizing an objective function involving the nuclear norm of Hankel matrices. Experimental results on simulated and real magnetic resonance spectroscopy data show that the proposed approach can successfully recover full signals from very limited samples and is robust to the estimated tensor rank. 
- **journal:** IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 
- **volume:** 65 
- **pages:** 3702-3717 
- **doi:** 10.1109/TSP.2017.2695566 
- **arxivid:** 1604.02100 

### Low Rank Enhanced Matrix Recovery of Hybrid Time and Frequency Data in Fast Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2018 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ce6df1e3f28fe403a536671e45b64a0a7d76658d> 
- **abstract:** Goal: The two dimensional magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) possesses many important applications in bioengineering but suffers from long acquisition duration. Non-uniform sampling has been applied to the spatiotemporally encoded ultrafast MRS, but results in missing data in the hybrid time and frequency plane. An approach is proposed to recover this missing signal, of which enables high quality spectrum reconstruction. M ethods: The natural exponential characteristic of MRS is exploited to recover the hybrid time and frequency signal. The reconstruction issue is formulated as a low rank enhanced Hankel matrix completion problem and is solved by a fast numerical algorithm. Results: Experiments on synthetic and real MRS data show that the proposed method provides faithful spectrum reconstruction, and outperforms the state-of-the-art compressed sensing approach on recovering low-intensity spectral peaks and robustness to different sampling patterns. C onclusion: The exponential signal property serves as an useful tool to model the time-domain MRS signals and even allows missing data recovery. The proposed method has been shown to reconstruct high quality MRS spectra from non-uniformly sampled data in the hybrid time and frequency plane. Significance: Low-intensity signal reconstruction is generally challenging in biological MRS and we provide a solution to this problem. The proposed method may be extended to recover signals that generally can be modeled as a sum of exponential functions in biomedical engineering applications, e.g., signal enhancement, feature extraction, and fast sampling. 
- **journal:** IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering 
- **volume:** 65 
- **pages:** 809-820 
- **doi:** 10.1109/TBME.2017.2719709 
- **pmid:** 28682242 

### DEEP picker is a deep neural network for accurate deconvolution of complex two-dimensional NMR spectra 
- **year:** 2021 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c776d855c32e4d3462e102118e85d2b760d3d3fd> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: A deep learning-based method that accelerates this process also for crowded NMR data that are non-trivial to analyze, even by expert NMR spectroscopists. 
- **journal:** Nature Communications 
- **volume:** 12 
- **pages:** null 
- **doi:** 10.1038/s41467-021-25496-5 
- **pmid:** 34471142 

### Exponential Signal Reconstruction With Deep Hankel Matrix Factorization. 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9ea5ded4aeafd779456dbbf302b5d787f3a60ed7> 
- **abstract:** Exponential function is a basic form of temporal signals, and how to fast acquire this signal is one of the fundamental problems and frontiers in signal processing. To achieve this goal, partial data may be acquired but result in severe artifacts in its spectrum, which is the Fourier transform of exponentials. Thus, reliable spectrum reconstruction is highly expected in the fast data acquisition in many applications, such as chemistry, biology, and medical imaging. In this work, we propose a deep learning method whose neural network structure is designed by imitating the iterative process in the model-based state-of-the-art exponentials' reconstruction method with the low-rank Hankel matrix factorization. With the experiments on synthetic data and realistic biological magnetic resonance signals, we demonstrate that the new method yields much lower reconstruction errors and preserves the low-intensity signals much better than compared methods. 
- **journal:** IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning systems 
- **volume:** PP 
- **pages:** null 
- **doi:** 10.1109/TNNLS.2021.3134717 
- **pmid:** 34941531 
- **arxivid:** 2007.06246 

### Accelerated magnetic resonance spectroscopy with Vandermonde factorization 
- **year:** 2017 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5d2cc6c084595dc87fa83daa718b85b356cb3ffb> 
- **abstract:** Multi-dimensional magnetic resonance spectroscopy is an important tool for studying molecular structures, interactions and dynamics in bio-engineering. The data acquisition time, however, is relatively long and non-uniform sampling can be applied to reduce this time. To obtain the full spectrum,a reconstruction method with Vandermonde factorization is proposed. This method explores the general signal property in magnetic resonance spectroscopy: Its time domain signal is approximated by a sum of a few exponentials. Results on synthetic and realistic data show that the new approach can achieve faithful spectrum reconstruction and outperforms state-of-the-art low rank Hankel matrix method. 
- **journal:** 2017 39th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC) 
- **volume:** null 
- **pages:** 3537-3540 
- **doi:** 10.1109/EMBC.2017.8037620 
- **arxivid:** 1701.07017 

### Reconstruction of Self-Sparse 2D NMR Spectra from Undersampled Data in the Indirect Dimension† 
- **year:** 2011 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b914afa0e3570857644e354f8121d78d6d26ab89> 
- **abstract:** Reducing the acquisition time for two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance (2D NMR) spectra is important. One way to achieve this goal is reducing the acquired data. In this paper, within the framework of compressed sensing, we proposed to undersample the data in the indirect dimension for a type of self-sparse 2D NMR spectra, that is, only a few meaningful spectral peaks occupy partial locations, while the rest of locations have very small or even no peaks. The spectrum is reconstructed by enforcing its sparsity in an identity matrix domain with ℓp (p = 0.5) norm optimization algorithm. Both theoretical analysis and simulation results show that the proposed method can reduce the reconstruction errors compared with the wavelet-based ℓ1 norm optimization. 
- **journal:** Sensors (Basel, Switzerland) 
- **volume:** 11 
- **pages:** 8888 - 8909 
- **doi:** 10.3390/s110908888 
- **pmid:** 22164111 

### Vandermonde Factorization of Hankel Matrix for Complex Exponential Signal Recovery—Application in Fast NMR Spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2018 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8cd0c2cd0680be56cecdeb55a1f244b732644d4b> 
- **abstract:** Many signals are modeled as a superposition of exponential functions in spectroscopy of chemistry, biology, and medical imaging. This paper studies the problem of recovering exponential signals from a random subset of samples. We exploit the Vandermonde structure of the Hankel matrix formed by the exponential signal and formulate signal recovery as Hankel matrix completion with Vandermonde factorization (HVaF). A numerical algorithm is developed to solve the proposed model and its sequence convergence is analyzed theoretically. Experiments on synthetic data demonstrate that HVaF succeeds over a wider regime than the state-of-the-art nuclear-norm-minimization-based Hankel matrix completion method, while it has a less restriction on frequency separation than the state-of-the-art atomic norm minimization and fast iterative hard thresholding methods. The effectiveness of HVaF is further validated on biological magnetic resonance spectroscopy data. 
- **journal:** IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 
- **volume:** 66 
- **pages:** 5520-5533 
- **doi:** 10.1109/TSP.2018.2869122 
- **arxivid:** 1809.00750 

### NMR spectrum reconstruction as a pattern recognition problem. 
- **year:** 2022 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/13b5f87cf40d4b54c32316771115c6fa27a9a6c4> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: A new deep neural network based on the WaveNet architecture (WNN) is presented, which is designed to grasp specific patterns in the NMR spectra, demonstrating prior knowledge about the NUS schedule can be used for designing new powerful NMR processing techniques that surpass the existing algorithmic methods. 
- **journal:** Journal of magnetic resonance 
- **volume:** 346 
- **pages:** 107342 
- **doi:** 10.1016/j.jmr.2022.107342 
- **pmid:** 36459916 
- **arxivid:** 2208.02552 

### Sparse multidimensional iterative lineshape-enhanced (SMILE) reconstruction of both non-uniformly sampled and conventional NMR data 
- **year:** 2017 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2f56bdcc708385c5200ef22ec86a58dd4f9484bf> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: The appearance and interpretation of SMILE-reconstructed spectra is very similar to that of fully sampled spectra generated by Fourier transformation, and the reconstruction quality approaches the theoretical limit in terms of peak position fidelity and intensity. 
- **journal:** Journal of Biomolecular NMR 
- **volume:** 68 
- **pages:** 101-118 
- **doi:** 10.1007/s10858-016-0072-7 
- **pmid:** 27866371 

### Causality principle in reconstruction of sparse NMR spectra 
- **year:** 2014 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2937ccad489e588e70a9bcfa096ab8b0418aed86> 
- **abstract:** Non-uniform sampling offers a dramatic increase in the power and efficiency of magnetic resonance techniques in chemistry, molecular structural biology, and other fields. Here we show that use of the causality property of an NMR signal is a general approach for major reduction of measuring time and quality improvement of the sparsely detected spectra. 
- **journal:** Chemical communications 
- **volume:** 50 64 
- **pages:** 8947-50 
- **doi:** 10.1039/c4cc03047h 
- **pmid:** 24975496 
- **arxivid:** 1401.6309 

### Accelerated MRI Reconstruction With Separable and Enhanced Low-Rank Hankel Regularization 
- **year:** 2021 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/06799177fd04441877ff9962429811e8f3e7d781> 
- **abstract:** Magnetic resonance imaging serves as an essential tool for clinical diagnosis, however, suffers from a long acquisition time. Sparse sampling effectively saves this time but images need to be faithfully reconstructed from undersampled data. Among the existing reconstruction methods, the structured low-rank methods have advantages in robustness to the sampling patterns and lower error. However, the structured low-rank methods use the 2D or higher dimension k-space data to build a huge block Hankel matrix, leading to considerable time and memory consumption. To reduce the size of the Hankel matrix, we proposed to separably construct multiple small Hankel matrices from rows and columns of the k-space and then constrain the low-rankness on these small matrices. This separable model can significantly reduce the computational time but ignores the correlation existed in inter- and intra-row or column, resulting in increased reconstruction error. To improve the reconstructed image without obviously increasing the computation, we further introduced the self-consistency of k-space and virtual coil prior. Besides, the proposed separable model can be extended into other imaging scenarios which hold exponential characteristics in the parameter dimension. The in vivo experimental results demonstrated that the proposed method permits the lowest reconstruction error with a fast reconstruction. The proposed approach requires only 4% of the state-of-the-art STDLR-SPIRiT runtime for parallel imaging reconstruction, and achieves the fastest computational speed in parameter imaging reconstruction. 
- **journal:** IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 
- **volume:** 41 
- **pages:** 2486-2498 
- **doi:** 10.1109/TMI.2022.3164472 
- **pmid:** 35377841 
- **arxivid:** 2107.11650 

### A fast low rank Vandermonde factorization reconstruction method for non-uniformly sampled 2D NMR spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2021 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1dbc050b34079d9a29c5260bd75a0afe345d37a1> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: Experiments demonstrate that compared with the state-of-the-art nuclear norm based minimization and fast iterative hard thresholding algorithms, the computational time of the proposed algorithm is significantly reduced, and high reconstruction accuracy can be ensured at the same time. 
- **journal:** Digit. Signal Process. 
- **volume:** 118 
- **pages:** 103249 
- **doi:** 10.1016/j.dsp.2021.103249 

### Accelerated NMR Spectroscopy: Merge Optimization with Deep Learning 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/03234b8bc3fe7a8f52a89e8f3f3ba98ab435f430> 
- **abstract:** : Multi-dimensional NMR spectroscopy is an invaluable biophysical tool in studies of structure, interactions, and dynamics of large molecules like proteins and nuclear acids. Non-uniform sampling is a powerful approach for shortening measurement time and increasing spectra resolution. Several methods have been established for spectra reconstruction from the undersampled data, typical approaches include model-based optimization and data-driven deep learning. The former is well theoretically grounded and provides high-quality spectra, while the latter has a huge advantage in reconstruction time potential and push further limits of spectra quality and analysis. Combining the merits of the two, we propose a model-inspired deep learning, for reliable, high-quality, and ultra-fast spectra reconstruction, exemplified by multi-dimensional spectra of several representative proteins. We demonstrate that the proposed network needs very few parameters, and shows very high robustness in respect to dissimilarity of the training and target data in the spectra size, type, and sampling level. This work can be considered as a proof-of-concept of merging optimization with deep learning in NMR spectroscopy. 
- **journal:** ArXiv 
- **volume:** abs/2012.14830 
- **pages:** null 

### Improved Reconstruction of Low Intensity Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy With Weighted Low Rank Hankel Matrix Completion 
- **year:** 2018 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/af2c25fb5513cf70c0e475dca899577d6cb53d2c> 
- **abstract:** Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) has many important applications in medical imaging, biology, and chemistry. The 1-D MRS is too crowded for complex samples to retrieve chemical or biological information. The 2-D MRS unfolds the spectrum by introducing another dimension at the cost of much longer data acquisition time. To speed up the data acquisition, one typical way is to sparsely acquire measurements and then reconstruct the spectrum from incomplete observations. Recently, a low rank Hankel matrix (LRHM) approach has shown great potential to reconstruct the spectrum basing on the assumption that the number of spectral peaks is much less than the number of acquired data points. However, low-intensity spectral peaks are compromised in the reconstruction when the data are highly undersampled. In this paper, a weighted LRHM approach is proposed to tackle this problem. A weighted nuclear norm is introduced to better approximate the rank constraint, and a prior signal space is estimated from the prereconstruction to reduce the unknowns in reconstruction. Experimental results on both synthetic and real MRS data demonstrate that the proposed approach can reconstruct low-intensity spectral peaks better than the state-of-the-art LRHM method. 
- **journal:** IEEE Access 
- **volume:** 6 
- **pages:** 4933-4940 
- **doi:** 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2794478 

### A Sparse Model-Inspired Deep Thresholding Network for Exponential Signal Reconstruction--Application in Fast Biological Spectroscopy. 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4a6ebadb0e65139e1ab6ac2fb2b1741f3a36d89b> 
- **abstract:** The nonuniform sampling (NUS) is a powerful approach to enable fast acquisition but requires sophisticated reconstruction algorithms. Faithful reconstruction from partially sampled exponentials is highly expected in general signal processing and many applications. Deep learning (DL) has shown astonishing potential in this field, but many existing problems, such as lack of robustness and explainability, greatly limit its applications. In this work, by combining the merits of the sparse model-based optimization method and data-driven DL, we propose a DL architecture for spectra reconstruction from undersampled data, called MoDern. It follows the iterative reconstruction in solving a sparse model to build the neural network, and we elaborately design a learnable soft-thresholding to adaptively eliminate the spectrum artifacts introduced by undersampling. Extensive results on both synthetic and biological data show that MoDern enables more robust, high-fidelity, and ultrafast reconstruction than the state-of-the-art methods. Remarkably, MoDern has a small number of network parameters and is trained on solely synthetic data while generalizing well to biological data in various scenarios. Furthermore, we extend it to an open-access and easy-to-use cloud computing platform (XCloud-MoDern), contributing a promising strategy for further development of biological applications. 
- **journal:** IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning systems 
- **volume:** PP 
- **pages:** null 
- **doi:** 10.1109/TNNLS.2022.3144580 
- **pmid:** 35120010 
- **arxivid:** 2012.14830 

### FID-Net: A versatile deep neural network architecture for NMR spectral reconstruction and virtual decoupling 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2714d536be1e4b5274f08b47539b7ae8c6530d03> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: FID-Net is introduced, a deep neural network architecture inspired by WaveNet that can efficiently virtually decouple 13Cα-13Cβ couplings in HNCA protein NMR spectra in a single shot analysis, while at the same time leaving glycine residues unmodulated. 
- **journal:** Journal of Biomolecular Nmr 
- **volume:** 75 
- **pages:** 179 - 191 
- **doi:** 10.1007/s10858-021-00366-w 
- **pmid:** 33870472 

### A partial sum of singular-value-based reconstruction method for non-uniformly sampled NMR spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/219d24ce83ba23a9d8a9bc29e92e889388173c56> 
- **abstract:** The nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy has fruitful applications in chemistry, biology and life sciences, but suffers from long acquisition time. Non ‐ uniform sampling is a typical fast NMR method by undersampling the time ‐ domain data of the spectrum but need to restore the fully sampled data with proper constraints. The state ‐ of ‐ the ‐ art method is to model the time ‐ domain data as the sum of exponential functions and reconstruct these data by enforcing the low rankness of Hankel matrix. However, this method is solved by minimizing the sum of singular values of the Hankel matrix, which leads to the distortion of low ‐ intensity spectral peaks. Here, a low rank Hankel matrix reconstruction approach with a partial sum of singular values is proposed to protect small singular values, which can faithfully reconstruct all peaks. Results on both synthetic and realistic NMR spectroscopy show that the proposed method can reconstruct 
- **journal:** IET Signal Process. 
- **volume:** 15 
- **pages:** 14-27 
- **doi:** 10.1049/sil2.12010 

### High-fidelity spectroscopy reconstruction in accelerated NMR. 
- **year:** 2018 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c901c6d7e392db26d3169cc13c4376c40a9bdb50> 
- **abstract:** Non-uniform sampling significantly accelerates the data acquisition time in NMR spectroscopy, but spectra must be reconstructed with appropriate methods. A high-fidelity reconstruction method is proposed to preserve low-intensity spectral peaks and provide stable reconstruction under different sampling trials. 
- **journal:** Chemical communications 
- **volume:** 54 78 
- **pages:** 10958-10961 
- **doi:** 10.1039/c8cc06132g 
- **pmid:** 30198542 

### Using Deep Neural Networks to Reconstruct Non-uniformly Sampled NMR Spectra 
- **year:** 2019 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/14a71bc3850a5f206ff67553f7469ffd29e7070b> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: It is shown here that simple deep neural networks can be trained to reconstruct sparsely sampled NMR spectra using a deep neural network performs as well, if not better than, the currently and widely used techniques. 
- **journal:** Journal of Biomolecular Nmr 
- **volume:** 73 
- **pages:** 577 - 585 
- **doi:** 10.1007/s10858-019-00265-1 
- **pmid:** 31292846 

### Complex Exponential Signal Recovery with Deep Hankel Matrix Factorization 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c3ec9a0e721cc7c98c06303dc0f7446564786ff> 
- **abstract:** Exponential is a basic signal form and how to fast acquire these signals is one of the fundamental problems and frontiers in signal processing. To achieve this goal, partial data may be acquired but result in the serious artifacts in its spectrum, which is the Fourier transform of exponentials. Thus, reliable spectrum reconstruction is highly expected in the fast sampling in many applications, such as chemistry, biology, and medical imaging. In this work, we propose a deep learning method whose neural network structure is designed by unrolling the iterative process in the model-based state-of-the-art exponentials reconstruction method with low rank Hankel matrix factorization. With the experiments on synthetic and realistic biological signals, we demonstrate that the new method yields much lower reconstruction errors and more accuracy in spectrum parameter quantification than another state-of-the-art deep learning method, while costs much less time than the model-based reconstruction methods. 
- **journal:** arXiv: Signal Processing 
- **volume:**  
- **pages:** null 

### Review and Prospect: NMR Spectroscopy Denoising & Reconstruction with Low Rank Hankel Matrices and Tensors. 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b1647ef4bc781300782e3f19fd608bebf77011d1> 
- **abstract:** Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is an important analytical tool in chemistry, biology, and life science, but it suffers from relatively low sensitivity and long acquisition time. Thus, improving the apparent signal-to-noise ratio and accelerating data acquisition become indispensable. In this review, we summarize the recent progress on low rank Hankel matrix and tensor methods, that exploit the exponential property of free induction decay signals, to enable effective denoising and spectra reconstruction. We also outline future developments that are likely to make NMR spectroscopy a far more powerful technique. 
- **journal:** Magnetic resonance in chemistry : MRC 
- **volume:** null 
- **pages:** null 
- **doi:** 10.1002/mrc.5082 
- **pmid:** 32797694 
- **arxivid:** 2007.12646 

### Accelerated NMR spectroscopy by using compressed sensing. 
- **year:** 2011 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/67ad9713c0bb607d8318cff5ce620a2f4102323e> 
- **abstract:** null 
- **journal:** Angewandte Chemie 
- **volume:** 50 24 
- **pages:** 5556-9 
- **doi:** 10.1002/anie.201100370 
- **pmid:** 21538743 

### Accelerated Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy with Deep Learning 
- **year:** 2019 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1f32c060d5919a4e1f1680d47933ed177003e5db> 
- **abstract:** Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy serves as an indispensable tool in chemistry and biology but often suffers from long experimental time. We present a proof-of-concept of application of deep learning and neural network for high-quality, reliable, and very fast NMR spectra reconstruction from limited experimental data. We show that the neural network training can be achieved using solely synthetic NMR signal, which lifts the prohibiting demand for large volume of realistic training data usually required in the deep learning approach. 
- **journal:** Angewandte Chemie 
- **volume:** null 
- **pages:** null 
- **doi:** 10.1002/anie.201908162 
- **pmid:** 31490596 
- **arxivid:** 1904.05168 

### NMR signal processing, prediction, and structure verification with machine learning techniques 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c51671fa033a45d271dc45be5089aaf66e7be108> 
- **abstract:** Machine learning (ML) methods have been present in the field of NMR since decades, but it has experienced a tremendous growth in the last few years, especially thanks to the emergence of deep learning (DL) techniques taking advantage of the increased amounts of data and available computer power. These algorithms are successfully employed for classification, regression, clustering, or dimensionality reduction tasks of large data sets and have been intensively applied in different areas of NMR including metabonomics, clinical diagnosis, or relaxometry. In this article, we concentrate on the various applications of ML/DL in the areas of NMR signal processing and analysis of small molecules, including automatic structure verification and prediction of NMR observables in solution. 
- **journal:** Magnetic Resonance in Chemistry 
- **volume:** 58 
- **pages:** 512 - 519 
- **doi:** 10.1002/mrc.4989 
- **pmid:** 31912547 

### NMRNet: a deep learning approach to automated peak picking of protein NMR spectra 
- **year:** 2018 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/09d495f6595e55b87c2ad850682979770b666231> 
- **abstract:** Motivation: Automated selection of signals in protein NMR spectra, known as peak picking, has been studied for over 20 years, nevertheless existing peak picking methods are still largely deficient. Accurate and precise automated peak picking would accelerate the structure calculation, and analysis of dynamics and interactions of macromolecules. Recent advancement in handling big data, together with an outburst of machine learning techniques, offer an opportunity to tackle the peak picking problem substantially faster than manual picking and on par with human accuracy. In particular, deep learning has proven to systematically achieve human‐level performance in various recognition tasks, and thus emerges as an ideal tool to address automated identification of NMR signals. Results: We have applied a convolutional neural network for visual analysis of multidimensional NMR spectra. A comprehensive test on 31 manually annotated spectra has demonstrated top‐tier average precision (AP) of 0.9596, 0.9058 and 0.8271 for backbone, side‐chain and NOESY spectra, respectively. Furthermore, a combination of extracted peak lists with automated assignment routine, FLYA, outperformed other methods, including the manual one, and led to correct resonance assignment at the levels of 90.40%, 89.90% and 90.20% for three benchmark proteins. Availability and implementation: The proposed model is a part of a Dumpling software (platform for protein NMR data analysis), and is available at <https://dumpling>.bio/. Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online. 
- **journal:** Bioinformatics 
- **volume:** 34 
- **pages:** 2590–2597 
- **doi:** 10.1093/bioinformatics/bty134 
- **pmid:** 29547986 

### Fundamental and practical aspects of machine learning for the peak picking of biomolecular NMR spectra 
- **year:** 2022 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b1a24fdef7faa02b8c937e1ff04d90b127839c7c> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: This work lays out some of the unique strengths as well as challenges of machine learning approaches in this new era of automated NMR spectral analysis, and suggests ways to better prepare for an NMR future where machine learning and artificial intelligence tools will be common place. 
- **journal:** Journal of Biomolecular Nmr 
- **volume:** 76 
- **pages:** 49 - 57 
- **doi:** 10.1007/s10858-022-00393-1 
- **pmid:** 35389128 

### XCloud-VIP: Virtual Peak Enables Highly Accelerated NMR Spectroscopy and Faithful Quantitative Measures 
- **year:** 2021 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5299b0301980ca2c415866fdbe8e7db28d670691> 
- **abstract:** Background: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is an important bio-engineering tool to determine the metabolic concentrations, molecule structures and so on. The data acquisition time, however, is very long in multi-dimensional NMR. To accelerate data acquisition, non-uniformly sampling is an effective way but may encounter severe spectral distortions and unfaithful quantitative measures when the acceleration factor is high. Objective: To reconstruct high fidelity spectra from highly accelerated NMR and achieve much better quantitative measures. Methods: A virtual peak (VIP) approach is proposed to self-learn the prior spectral information, such as the central frequency and peak lineshape, and then feed these information into the reconstruction. The proposed method is further implemented with cloud computing to facilitate online, open, and easy access. Results: Results on synthetic and experimental data demonstrate that, compared with the state-of-the-art method, the new approach provides much better reconstruction of low-intensity peaks and significantly improves the quantitative measures, including the regression of peak intensity, the distances between nuclear pairs, and concentrations of metabolics in mixtures. Conclusion: Self-learning prior peak information can improve the reconstruction and quantitative measures of spectra. Significance: This approach enables highly accelerated NMR and may promote time-consuming applications such as quantitative and time-resolved NMR experiments. 
- **arxivid:** 2103.11675 

### Intact metabolite spectrum mining by deep learning in proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the brain 
- **year:** 2019 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c3e52d0b6ddd74ce810cbb398c9ec20b353969d2> 
- **abstract:** To develop a robust method for brain metabolite quantification in proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H‐MRS) using a convolutional neural network (CNN) that maps in vivo brain spectra that are typically degraded by low SNR, line broadening, and spectral baseline into noise‐free, line‐narrowed, baseline‐removed intact metabolite spectra. 
- **journal:** Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 
- **volume:** 82 
- **pages:** 33 - 48 
- **doi:** 10.1002/mrm.27727 
- **pmid:** 30860291 

### Accelerated NMR spectroscopy with low-rank reconstruction. 
- **year:** 2015 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7809cfb58c33ec37d0a791a3017db1b48a491c65> 
- **abstract:** Accelerated multi-dimensional NMR spectroscopy is a prerequisite for high-throughput applications, studying short-lived molecular systems and monitoring chemical reactions in real time. Non-uniform sampling is a common approach to reduce the measurement time. Here, a new method for high-quality spectra reconstruction from non-uniformly sampled data is introduced, which is based on recent developments in the field of signal processing theory and uses the so far unexploited general property of the NMR signal, its low rank. Using experimental and simulated data, we demonstrate that the low-rank reconstruction is a viable alternative to the current state-of-the-art technique compressed sensing. In particular, the low-rank approach is good in preserving of low-intensity broad peaks, and thus increases the effective sensitivity in the reconstructed spectra. 
- **journal:** Angewandte Chemie 
- **volume:** 54 3 
- **pages:** 852-4 
- **doi:** 10.1002/anie.201409291 
- **pmid:** 25389060 

### A Fast Self-Learning Subspace Reconstruction Method for Non-Uniformly Sampled Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9eb8adc7125f20bb108b2945180cdef9e402c567> 
- **abstract:** Multidimensional nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is one of the most crucial detection tools for molecular structure analysis and has been widely used in biomedicine and chemistry. However, the development of NMR spectroscopy is hampered by long data collection time. Non-uniform sampling empowers rapid signal acquisition by collecting a small subset of data. Since the sampling rate is lower than that of the Nyquist sampling ratio, undersampling artifacts arise in reconstructed spectra. To obtain a high-quality spectrum, it is necessary to apply reasonable prior constraints in spectrum reconstruction models. The self-learning subspace method has been shown to possess superior advantages than that of the state-of-the-art low-rank Hankel matrix method when adopting high acceleration in data sampling. However, the self-learning subspace method is time-consuming due to the singular value decomposition in iterations. In this paper, we propose a fast self-learning subspace method to enable fast and high-quality reconstructions. Aided by parallel computing, the experiment results show that the proposed method can reconstruct high-fidelity spectra but spend less than 10% of the time required by the non-parallel self-learning subspace method. 
- **journal:** Applied Sciences 
- **volume:** null 
- **pages:** null 
- **doi:** 10.3390/app10113939 

### A low rank Hankel matrix reconstruction method for ultrafast magnetic resonance spectroscopy 
- **year:** 2017 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/801d21137012d0b9b6b73de10de15934a981f989> 
- **abstract:** Magnetic resonance spectroscopy has many important applications in bio-engineering while acquiring high dimensional spectroscopy is usually time consuming. Non-uniformly sampling can speed up the data acquisition but the missing data points have to be restored with proper signal models. In this work, a specific two dimensional (2D) magnetic resonance signal, in which the first dimension lies in frequency domain while the second dimension lies in time domain, is reconstructed with a proposed low rank Hankel-matrix method. This method explores two general properties: 1) the rank of a structured matrix, converted from a 2D exponential signal, is equal to the number of 2D spectral peaks; 2) this rank is small if the spectrum is sparse. Results on real magnetic resonance spectroscopy show that proposed method outperforms the state-of-compressed sensing method on recovering low-intensity spectral peaks. 
- **journal:** 2017 39th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC) 
- **volume:** null 
- **pages:** 3269-3272 
- **doi:** 10.1109/EMBC.2017.8037554 

### PPM_One: a static protein structure based chemical shift predictor 
- **year:** 2015 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d778e6d7e89b87652e6c3358b67d34dba65f8bfa> 
- **abstract:** null 
- **journal:** Journal of Biomolecular NMR 
- **volume:** 62 
- **pages:** 403 - 409 
- **doi:** 10.1007/s10858-015-9958-z 

### One-Dimensional Deep Low-Rank and Sparse Network for Accelerated MRI 
- **year:** 2021 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/57ccd37bf5d8c0adc8bf9992490d80408354b116> 
- **abstract:** Deep learning has shown astonishing performance in accelerated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Most state-of-the-art deep learning reconstructions adopt the powerful convolutional neural network and perform 2D convolution since many magnetic resonance images or their corresponding k-space are in 2D. In this work, we present a new approach that explores the 1D convolution, making the deep network much easier to be trained and generalized. We further integrate the 1D convolution into the proposed deep network, named as One-dimensional Deep Low-rank and Sparse network (ODLS), which unrolls the iteration procedure of a low-rank and sparse reconstruction model. Extensive results on in vivo knee and brain datasets demonstrate that, the proposed ODLS is very suitable for the case of limited training subjects and provides improved reconstruction performance than state-of-the-art methods both visually and quantitatively. Additionally, ODLS also shows nice robustness to different undersampling scenarios and some mismatches between the training and test data. In summary, our work demonstrates that the 1D deep learning scheme is memory-efficient and robust in fast MRI. 
- **journal:** IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 
- **volume:** 42 
- **pages:** 79-90 
- **doi:** 10.1109/TMI.2022.3203312 
- **pmid:** 36044484 
- **arxivid:** 2112.04721 

### Fast reconstruction of non-uniform sampling multidimensional NMR spectroscopy via a deep neural network. 
- **year:** 2020 
- **url:** <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11b99a89860701955250d35e86a725434f69e823> 
- **abstract:** S2 TL;DR: A deep learning-based strategy for fast reconstruction of non-uniform sampling NMR spectra is proposed and has better performance in removing artifacts and preserving weak peaks than typical convolutional neural networks of U-Net and DenseNet. 
- **journal:** Journal of magnetic resonance 
- **volume:** 317 
- **pages:** 106772 
- **doi:** 10.1016/j.jmr.2020.106772 
- **pmid:** 32589585 
